---
layout: page
title: Course Information for Summer 2017
---
This is just a sketch; more details will be available at the start of the Summer semester.


## Prerequisites: None
Absolutely no background in computer programming or statistics is needed.  We will occasionally use math at the level 
of high school algebra and trigonometry, but that kind of math isn't critical to the course.

## Texts
### Required:
The required text is [Computational Thinking with Data](/textbook), which is available for free online.  If you want a printed copy, a PDF is available, and there are [many stores around campus](https://www.yelp.com/search?find_desc=Printing&find_loc=Berkeley,+CA) at which you can print it.

### Excellent references
- [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com): A great resource for general questions about programming and Python.  If you have a question, probably someone else has asked it here and gotten an answer from an expert.
- Data 8 lectures from [Spring 2017](https://data8.org/sp17) or [Fall 2016](https://data8.org/fa16): There is some overlap in topics between Data 8 and Data 8R, and you may find lectures or other materials from Data 8 useful.
- Relatedly, the Data 8 textbook [Computational and Inferential Thinking](http://inferentialthinking.org), by Ani Adhikari and John Denero, overlaps some of the content of this course, and you may find the alternate viewpoint complementary.
- [Documentation for the `datascience` package](https://data8.org/datascience/): We'll be using a Python package called `datascience` that was designed at Berkeley for introductory data science courses like this one.  The documentation will be a useful reference.  (It's possible to access documentation in a Jupyter notebook, without opening a new browser tab.  In a code cell, write the function you're curious about, followed by `?`, and then run the cell.)

## Infrastructure
- [data8r.datahub.berkeley.edu](https://data8r.datahub.berkeley.edu) is where you'll run code and work on most assignments in this class.  You don't need to install anything to use it, other than a (supported) browser like [Chrome](https://google.com/chrome).
- [Piazza](https://piazza.com) is the primary web-based way for us to communicate with each other.  It's basically a forum with a single discussion board.  If we make an announcement, it will be on Piazza, so be sure to sign up!  If you have a question when you're not in class or at office hours, asking it on Piazza is the fastest way to get an answer.  In the past, many students have enjoyed answering other students' questions.
- The [okpy](https://okpy.org) autograder and submission system will manage your homework and lab assignment submissions.  You'll submit your work to okpy by running a cell in each assignment's Jupyter notebook.  You can visit the [okpy website](okpy.org) to check your submissions and grades.

## The Required Components of Your Work
One goal of this course is that you master the fundamentals of the programming language Python.  Like any language, Python is best learned by repeated, continuous practice.  That's the main purpose of the labs, quizzes, and weekly homework assignments.

1. Weekly homework, which you will do in Jupyter notebooks.  Each homework will have its own due date, but homeworks will generally be assigned on Thursdays and due Mondays.
2. Several labs per week.  Each lab is a Jupyter notebook and is submitted to [okpy](okpy.org) in the same fashion as homework.  Each lab is designed so that you can complete it (or almost complete it) during the day's lab session.  You will receive full credit for making a good effort.  Each lab is due at 11:59 PM on the day it's assigned.
3. Several quizzes, or "vitamins," per week.  Each vitamin is a very short Google Form designed to remind you about what you learned in lecture.  If you're spending more than 10 minutes on a vitamin, please ask for help.
4. Midterm in class at a date TBD, likely on 7/13 or 7/14. No substitutes except as required by university rules. No computers involved.
5. Final exam in class on 8/4, the last day of class. No computers involved. The final is required for getting a passing grade.

Data science is not a solitary activity; please expect to attend lectures, discussion section, and lab. Lectures will not be webcast, but the online text will contain what is covered apart from discussions generated by questions asked in class.

